In this video, you will learn 10 powerful
facts about the 10 commandments.
A misunderstanding of just 1 of these 10 facts
could cost you eternal life. Stay tuned!
Hi everyone, this is Dustin with Hope Through
Prophecy.
On this channel, we help you to understand
Bible Prophecy, and be prepared for these
end times.
The law of God, also known as the 10 commandments,
is under attack.
Many well-meaning Christians have lost sight
of the role and purpose of God’s law – an
understanding that is essential to every Christian.
Make sure carefully watch all 10 facts in
this video, as each has eternal importance.
Also, at the end, I will reveal how it is
possible to faithfully obey the 10 commandments!
First, please subscribe and hit the bell icon
so your notified of all the powerful content
we have in store for you.
Before we dive into our 10 facts, let us consider
the 10 commandments themselves.
Exodus 31:18 tells us “And he gave unto
Moses, when he had made an end of communing
with him upon mount Sinai, two tables of testimony,
tables of stone, written with the finger of God.”
Notice that the 10 commandments were written
in stone by the very finger of God and given
to Moses on Mt. Sinai.
The following is a summary of the ten commandments,
found in Exodus chapter 20.
Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image
Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them
Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain
Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy
Honor thy father and thy mother
Thou Shalt Not Kill
Thou shalt not commit adultery
Thou shalt not steal
Thou shalt not bear false witness against
thy neighbor
Thou shalt not covet
There you have it friends – The 10 commandments,
the Law of God, spoken with His own mouth,
and written with His own finger.
Now, Let’s jump right in with our first
fact about God’s Law
1.
The Law of God Points out Sin and Our Need
of a Savior
The 10 commandments serve a very important
role.
They reveal to us what sin is.
This is very important because we want to
avoid sin at all costs.
After all, the Bible says
For the wages of sin is death; but the gift
of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ
our Lord.
Notice how the law serves the purpose of identifying,
or revealing, what sin is:
“Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth
also the law: for sin is the transgression
of the law.”
Romans 3:20 says it very plainly:
…for by the law is the knowledge of sin.
In fact, Paul says in Romans 7:7
..I had not known sin, but by the law…
So, we can see that the law serves the critical
role of pointing out our sin to us, which
shows us our need of a Savior.
But we should also note that the law cannot
save us.
Notice this powerful verse:
For by grace are ye saved through faith; and
that not of yourselves: it is the gift of
God: Not of works, lest any man should boast.
The best way that I can think to illustrate
this is with a mirror.
When we sin, it’s like getting mud on our
face, that needs to be cleaned.
We are not aware of our sin, or dirt, until
we look into a mirror.
The mirror is like the law – it reveals
our sin to us.
But can the mirror clean the dirt of our face?
No, it simply reveals the dirt, so that we
can wash it off with water.
In the same way, the law can not cleanse our
sin, but it reveals it to us so that we can
go to Jesus, who cleanses us.
So, is the solution to get rid of the mirror
by smashing it?
No!
If we remove the law from this equation, we
can no longer see our sin, and we no longer
have a need for a Savior!
I hope you can see how dangerous it is to
believe that the law of God no longer matters!
The law identifies sin, and shows us our need
of Jesus.
If we continue to break the law (sin), then
we will be lost:
“sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth
death.”
But there is good news!
When we confess our sins, God will forgive
us, and help us to obey His law!
At the end of this video, I will reveal how
this is possible!
2.
God’s Law Reveals His character
Did you know that the Bible calls the Law
of God pure, holy, good, just, and perfect?
These are just some of the characteristics
that describe both the law and God Himself.
Notice how this verse uses the same description
when talking about God and His law!
But the LORD of hosts shall be exalted in
judgment, and God that is holy shall be sanctified
in righteousness.
Wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment
holy, and just, and good.
Both God and His law are holy!
Consider this example:
Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father
which is in heaven is perfect.
The law of the LORD is perfect, converting
the soul…
Both God and His law are perfect!
I will provide just one more verse comparison
that shows how God’s law reveals His character.
And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba,
and called there on the name of the LORD,
the everlasting God.
The works of his hands are verity and judgment;
all his commandments are sure.
They stand fast for ever and ever, and are
done in truth and uprightness.
Notice how both God and His law are eternal
– they last forever!
The very character of God – who is pure,
good, true, and perfect, and unchanging, can
be seen in His law!
3.
Obeying God’s Law Leads to Peace and Happiness
As a former social studies teacher in the
public schools, the required curriculum for
my students taught that the 10 commandments
are the basis, or foundation, for many governments
throughout world history.
Even to this day, countries across the world,
including the United States of America, have
laws (such as prohibiting theft and murder)
that are anchored in the 10 commandments.
God’s law has been a safeguard to countries
across the world, and obeying His commandments
leads to true peace and happiness.
The Bible reveals that
…he that keepeth the law, happy is he.
And
My son, forget not my law; but let thine heart
keep my commandments: For length of days,
and long life, and peace, shall they add to
thee.
God’s Law is Eternal and Can Never Be Changed.
Obeying God’s law leads to peace and happiness.
4.
God’s Law is Eternal and Can Never Be Changed
Think about this for a second friends.
Every successful nation in this world has
laws.
These laws serve to protect that nation and
keep it safe.
Would the government of God be any different?
Is it reasonable to think that God does not
have laws that protect and guide His people?
Listen to what the Bible says about the permanence
of God’s Law:
My covenant will I not break, nor alter the
thing that is gone out of my lips.
If you remember, God spoke the 10 commandments
with His own mouth.
Notice that God tells us that He will never
change the things that He speaks.
Just in case there was any doubt if God’s
law is permanent, Jesus makes it clear in
this verse:
And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass,
than one tittle of the law to fail.
God’s law is eternal, and can never be changed.
5.
The Law of Moses was Nailed to the Cross,
NOT the Law of God
Many people have a misunderstanding of which
laws in the Bible are done away with.
There are many laws in Old Testament that
were designed to bring people’s attention
to the coming Messiah, which is Jesus.
These laws, such as killing lambs and goats,
and many others, were called ceremonial laws,
and Christians no longer need to follow them
– they had their fulfillment in Christ.
All of the laws of the Old Testament, including
the ceremonial laws and the laws given specifically
to the nation of Israel are known as the Law
of Moses.
These laws should not be confused with the
law of God, also known as the moral law, or
the 10 commandments, which we have clearly
seen are eternal and permanent.
Notice the clear difference the Bible makes
between the law of God and the law of Moses.
The Bible says
The Law of Moses was written in a book by
Moses.
The Law of God is written on stone by God.
The Law of Moses was stored in side of the
ark of the covenant.
The law of God was stored inside of the ark
of the covenant, showing a clear distinction
between the 2 laws.
The Law of Moses is contrary to us, or against
us.
The Law of God is not burdensome.
The Law of Moses is carnal, or fleshly.
The Law of God is spiritual.
The Law of Moses was abolished, or completed
at the cross.
The Law of God will last forever.
As you can see, the Bible makes a clear difference
between the law of Moses and that law of God.
It was the law of Moses that was nailed to
the cross, not the law of God.
6.
Jesus’ Death on the Cross Proves that God’s
Law Can Never be Changed
Perhaps the greatest proof or strongest evidence
that God’s law can never be changed is the
fact that Jesus came to this earth to pay
the penalty for our sins – the broken law
of God.
If God’s law could ever be changed, altered,
or done away with, then Jesus would not have
had to die to save us!
Referring to Jesus, the Bible says:
Who his own self bare our sins in his own
body on the tree, that we, being dead to sins,
should live unto righteousness: by whose stripes
ye were healed.
Notice that He died to pay for our sins.
Remember, sin is the breaking of the law!
In fact, during His life here on earth, Jesus
taught that we should obey God’s commandments,
and he perfectly followed them Himself!
He says
…but if thou wilt enter into life, keep
the commandments.”
And
If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide
in my love; even as I have kept my Father's
commandments, and abide in his love.
Jesus death proves 2 things about God – Number
1, He is Love – His sent His only Son to
die for our sins, so that we may have eternal
life!
Number 2, God is righteous – His law cannot
be changed – even his own Son had to pay
the penalty of death because of our breaking
of the law – he took these sins upon Himself.
What a loving and righteous God we serve!
7.
God Hates the Teaching that We Don’t Need
to Obey His Law
Many modern pastors and church members, perhaps
innocently misguided, have a accepted a deadly
false teaching when it comes to God’s law
– they believe that it is no longer binding
since we are under grace, and not under the
law.
What does the Bible say about this?
Do we then make void the law through faith?
God forbid: yea, we establish the law.
You see, to be “under the law” means to
be living under the condemnation of the law.
This happens when we disobey or breaks God’s
law – we are then condemned by it.
While it is true that, as Christians, we are
living under grace and not under the law,
this does not give us permission to break
God’s law and sin!
Think about this illustration friends.
You are speeding down the highway with the
pedal to the medal when you seen those dreaded
blinking lights in your rearview mirror.
A police officers approaches your car and
confirms the obvious – you were speeding.
However, the officer than does something that
he doesn’t need to do – he gives you grace!
Instead of writing a ticket and making you
pay for your action, he pardons you and tells
you to slow down and be careful.
Now friend, how should you respond to this
grace?
Should you floor the gas pedal and burn your
tires out as soon as the officer walks away?
Of course not!
If youdid this, the officer would most likely
write you a ticket!
Instead of grace, you would now be under the
law!
Yes, when we confess our sins and are forgiven,
we are given grace, but we must respond to
this grace by obeying God’s law, and not
returning to sin.
If we return to sin, we will once again be
under the law.
As new covenant Christians, it is essential
that we obey God’s law out of our love for
Him.
Notice this passage that describes the new
covenant:
This is the covenant that I will make with
them after those days, saith the Lord, I will
put my laws into their hearts, and in their
minds will I write them.
Notice that God promises to write His 10 commandment
law on our hearts!
That is, if we choose to follow God, He will
teach us to love and obey His laws!
Let’s think about this for a second friends.
Does the teaching that we no longer have to
obey God’s law even make sense?
Think about the 10 commandments.
Which of these should we now be allowed to
break?
Should we now steal, lie, murder, take each
other’s wives?
Take the Lord’s name is vain?
Does God now say it’s acceptable for us
to do these things?
Of course not!
God’s law points out sin, is the foundation
of His government, and can never be changed.
So, what does God say about preachers and
ministers who teach that we no longer need
to obey God’s law?
Please pay careful attention to this strong
wording:
For the priest's lips should keep knowledge,
and they should seek the law at his mouth:
for he is the messenger of the LORD of hosts.
But ye are departed out of the way; ye have
caused many to stumble at the law; ye have
corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the
LORD of hosts.
Therefore have I also made you contemptible
and base before all the people, according
as ye have not kept my ways, but have been
partial in the law.
The Bible condemns those who teach that we
can break even one of God’s 10 commandments.
Listen to this clear Bible passage:
Whosoever therefore shall break one of these
least commandments, and shall teach men so,
he shall be called the least in the kingdom
of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach
them, the same shall be called great in the
kingdom of heaven.
Friends, God Hates the Teaching that We Don’t
Need to Obey His Law, and he will hold ministers
accountable who teach this false doctrine.
8.
All Men will be Judged by the Law of God
The Bible is clear, as we have already seen,
that we are saved by grace.
However, the Bible also speaks of a judgment.
Every human being will be judged to see if
their faith was genuine, to see if their lives
match up with their claim to believe in Christ.
2 Corinthians 5:10 says that
…we must all appear before the judgment
seat of Christ.
And how will we be judged?
So speak ye, and so do, as they that shall
be judged by the law of liberty.
We will all be judged by God’s law, here
referred to as the law of liberty.
The previous verse, 11, makes it clear that
this law of liberty is referring to the 10
commandments.
It is true that Jesus will be our Advocate in the judgment, and His precious blood will forgive us of all our sins that we have confessed.
However, any sins that we hold on to will
not be forgiven.
God does not want us to be confused about
what are standard for holy living is.
He wants our duty to be clear to us.
The Bible says
Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this
is the whole duty of man.
Let us learn to love and obey God’s law
– for all men will be judged by the law
of God.
9.
Those Who obey God’s Law will Have Eternal
Life
The Bible promises that those who surrender
their lives to God, and keep His commandments
will be granted access to Heaven.
Consider the thrilling promise given in this
verse
Blessed are they that do his commandments,
that they may have right to the tree of life,
and may enter in through the gates into the
city.
On the other hand, there will be those who
profess to be Christians, but are not obedient
to God’s law.
The Bible describes their fate as well:
Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord,
have we not prophesied in thy name? and in
thy name have cast out devils? and in thy
name done many wonderful works?
And then will I profess unto them, I never
knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity.
Iniquity is another name for sin, and we have
seen that sin is the breaking of God’s law.
Those who continue to break God’s commandments,
even if they have done many good things in
their life, will be destroyed.
Friends, I hope you choose to give yourself
fully to Jesus.
I hope you choose to cherish His law and strive
to obey each of His 10 commandments.
I would love to meet you by the tree of life
in Heaven.
10.
If We Love Jesus, We Will Obey His Commandments
Sometimes Christians who seek to obey God’s
law are accused of being legalists.
Think about this for a second.
If a parent tells their child to clean their
room before going outside, and the child obeys
their parent, should the child be accused
of being a legalist?
Of course not!
As Christians, we should want to obey God’s
laws because of our love for Him and our desire
to please Him.
We should not view our obedience as earning
our own salvation (this would be legalism),
but we should obey God out of love, and to
show that our faith is real.
After all, the Bible says that faith without
works is dead.
In fact Jesus tells us plainly
If ye love me, keep my commandments.
The Bible says
And hereby we do know that we know him, if
we keep his commandments.
On the other hand
He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not
his commandments, is a liar, and the truth
is not in him.
Behold Jesus, the Lamb of God that takes away
the sin of the world.
He died for your sins and mine.
Dear friend, show your love for Jesus today
by making a commitment to keep all 10 of his
commandments.
If this is your desire, please write in the
comment section below “Dear Lord, write
your law on my heart.”
You may be thinking, “Lord I can clearly
see from the Bible, that I must obey your
commandments.
I want to show my love for Jesus, and follow
His example, by obeying your law.
But I don’t know if I can.
I have failed so many times before”.
But friends, obedience to God’s law is possible.
He would never ask us to do something that
He will not give us the power to do.
Consider these precious Bible promises:
For it is God which worketh in you both to
will and to do of his good pleasure.
God will help you not only to obey Him, but
even to desire to obey Him!
I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth
me.
Friends, total obedience is possible!
When we chose to obey Him, and put our trust
in Jesus, He will give us all the power we
need!
Once again, I hope it’s clear to you that
God’s law, the very reflection of His character,
is eternal, and will never change.
I hope it’s clear that those who obey the
10 commandments will receive eternal life,
and those who continue to break God’s law
will be lost.
If you love Jesus, and would like to commit
to obey His commandments, please write in
the comment section below “Lord, write your
law on my heart.”
If this video has been helpful, please like,
subscribe, and hit the bell icon.
If you would like to keep in touch with me
and receive several free offers, just text
HOPE to 50597.
Friends, keep your eyes on Jesus, the author
and finisher of your faith!